# Data-510-Capstone
My Final Project for WU MSDS
# Data-510-Capstone

## Abstract
Anaconda's 2021 State of Data Science survey says that Data Scientists spend almost 40% of their time on data prep and data cleansing. That does not include data exploration or data visualization. Considering that a given company will have multiple sources of data – web data, offline purchase data, loyalty data, CRM data, just to name a few, it is understandable why this process is so time consuming. Adobe has released a tool known as Customer Journey Analytics that incorporates data cleanliness and standardization as part of the process, and allows you to join all those online and offline datasets. While it is frequently touted for its visualization prowess and data exploration capabilities, I will show how you can utilize these capabilities and the clean data to integrate with R to further the functionality to be capable of modeling data. I will use Adobe’s demo environment to integrate with R and show the benefits of Customer Journey Analytics for the data scientist.

## Context
When organizations determine the appropriate analytics tool for their staff it can be hard to determine what the right mix is. Many visualization tools like Power BI or Tableau still require the user to know SQL to do some extraction and joining of data. Or once in Power BI, know how to write dax to do more complicated functions. Alternative you a company may purchase an analytics software that allows data exploration or visualization without knowing a coding language. However, those can be limited to the one type of analysis they are meant for, like marketing analytics, or web analytics. It still fails to bring together disparate data sources. Adobe built Customer Journey Analytics to fulfill the niche in the market. To be the data exploration and visualization tool for any business user. No coding or new extraction needed. However, companies may still have a data science team that needs to utilize this data for inhouse modeling.

It's an important piece to resolve to understand how Customer Journey Analytics can help all areas of the organization, including data scientists. The benefits that a company will realize by having the data continually joined and available for use by anyone, including everyone speaking from the same source of data will allow the organization to have real, immediate, and consistent insight into their data.

## Proposal
Adobe has positioned Customer Journey Analytics to be the tool belt to help everyone at the organization. The focus is usually on the easy-to-use interface, and the ability to find meaningful insights at the speed of thought. It gets positioned in a way that appeals to marketing teams or teams without the technical skill set to do data wrangling and exploration on their own. But CJA is real data democratization. It is an asset for the non-technical, but it additionally provides API integration across various tools, including R. This makes it useful to all business units with a variety of skill-sets - those that can benefit from data exploration in a robust, drag and drop system, to the data scientists that want to take the data even further and model behaviors on it. 

I will integrate R with the demo data that Adobe makes available to their Data and Insights team. I will extract it with a R package called CJAR. I will then document the time saved by being able to just work off of pre-cleaned and pre-stitched data. Showcasing how CJA empowers everyone in an organization to explore and analyze the entire customer journey while working from one tool.

I expect to find that it is a time saving experience when modeling from pre-cleaned and pre-stitched data. That insights can be found and data exploration can occur for a data scientist within CJA, but also within R. Additionally, by making meaningful models, and bringing those scores back into CJA, everyone at a company will benefit from the technical expertise of a team member. Once done, we can really highlight the deep power of CJA - that truly, anyone, anywhere can tell the holistic story from one source of data.

## Conclusion
Omnichannel analysis is critical for a company to fully understand the customer, engage them in your brand, personalize their experience, and deliver the experience they have come to expect. Currently, the time to solve omni-channel data questions is high and requires a high level of technical expertise. Adobe’s Customer Journey Analytics joins together those disparate data sets to be used and understood by everyone. And because of the robust features, it is a solution that data scientists will utilize and has the unspoken benefit of everyone working from one source of data without having to join it ad-hoc.

